ABBREVIATIONS

ALES: Academic Staff and Graduate Education Entrance Exam

What is EBYS?
EBYS means "Elektronik Belge Yönetim Sistemi" in Turkish.
EBYS is initial letters of "Electronic Document Management System"

What is EABD?
EABD means "Enstitü Ana Bilim Dalı" in Turkish.
EABD is inital letters of "Graduate School Department"

What is EASD?
EASD means "Enstitü Ana Sanat Dalı" in Turkish.
EASD is inital letters of "Institute Main Art Department"

What is EYK?
EYK means "Enstitü Yönetim Kurulu" in Turkish.
EYK is inital letters of "Institute Administrative Board"

APPLICATION PROCESS

When and under what conditions can I apply to your graduate programs?
Graduate student admissions are made in the fall and spring semesters specified in the academic calendar. Minimum application requirements:
To have the undergraduate degree required in the program application requirements
To have at least 55 points from ALES in the field required in the program application conditions.
For the PhD Program, getting at least 55 points from the Foreign Language Exam

Can I apply to more than one graduate program?
You can apply to 1 Master's program without thesis and 1 Master's program with thesis or 1 Master's program without thesis and 1 PhD program. 

Will I pay a fee for graduate programs?
Master's and PhD programs with thesis are free of charge, but if you cannot graduate within the normal period, you will pay a fee until your maximum period expires.
Non-thesis Master's programs are paid and the total fee of our institute's programs is 5500.00 TL. It is collected in two equal installments at the beginning of the semester.
Distance Education Non-Thesis Master's Degree programs are paid and the total fee is 6500,00 TL. It is collected in two equal installments at the beginning of the semester.
In non-thesis master's programs, free of charge for the relatives of martyrs and veterans, and for the disabled; discounts are made according to disability rates.
The fee for the employees of the institution with a protocol in non-thesis master's programs is 3400TL.
The total fee for Aksaray University staff is 2000TL.

How long is the military service deferment (extension) period for graduate programs? Does the institute do this process?
It is 1.5 years for non-thesis Master's programs, 3 years for Master's programs with thesis and 6 years for PhD programs. Our institute makes the deferment procedures within 1 month from the date of registration.

When and how can I apply for a scholarship or student loan?
Applications are made from the Credit and Dormitories Institution (www.kyk.gov.tr) on the dates announced on the relevant page according to the conditions of the institution.

TRANSFER PROCESS

How can I transfer to the graduate programs of your institute?
Students who want to transfer from the graduate programs of a higher education institution to the equivalent graduate programs of our institute apply to the institute with a petition on the dates specified in the academic calendar.
For detailed information: http://sbe.aksaray.edu.tr/dosya/a9debbf9-d26f-4bdc-ae8d-4464d0097de9.pdf

SPECIAL STUDENT PROCESS

How can I apply as a special student to your graduate programs?
Students enrolled in a master's, doctorate or proficiency in art program can be admitted to graduate courses at other higher education institutions as a special student with the approval of the head of the department of the institute where they are enrolled. The exemption procedures of the courses that the students who are accepted to graduate courses take as a special student and are successful are carried out by the head of the department of the institute where they are enrolled.

How many courses can I take as a special student?
You can take a maximum of 3 courses from the courses offered during the semester.

Will I pay a fee for the courses I take as a special student?
Students enrolled in a graduate program at a higher education institution and research assistants do not pay any fees for the courses they take as special students.

NEW ENROLLED STUDENT PROCESS

I am enrolled in graduate programs at your institute. What is my username and password?
Your username is the student number given to you when you register at the institute. Your password is sent to your e-mail address or mobile phone after registration.

When can I register for classes?
You need to register for your courses between the dates specified in the academic calendar.(https://ogris.aksaray.edu.tr/akademik-takvim)

How many courses do I have to take in graduate programs?
In the Non-Thesis Master's Program, you need to take a total of 10 courses + Term Project. In one semester, you can take a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 7 courses + Term Project (which belongs to your advisor in the second semester).
In the Master's Program with Thesis, you can take a total of 7 courses (elective-compulsory) + Specialization Field Course (belonging to your advisor every semester) + Seminar (belonging to your advisor only in one semester) + Master's Thesis (every semester after the end of the course period until graduation).
In the PhD Program, you can take a total of 7 courses (elective-compulsory) + Specialized Field Course (belonging to your advisor every semester) + Seminar (belonging to your advisor only one semester) + Qualifying Course (belonging to your advisor only during the Qualifying period) + Doctoral Thesis (belonging to your advisor every semester after the qualifying period until you graduate).

When can I get a student ID card or student certificate?
You can get the student ID card from the student affairs office of our Institute 2 weeks after the beginning of the academic year.
You can get the student certificate after you register for the course via e-government or by applying to the Graduate School Student Affairs Office.

Where are the graduate courses held?
Graduate courses are held in the institute classrooms in the faculties where the program is opened. Courses with ASUZEM in the course program will be given by distance education.

Is it compulsory to attend the courses?
Attendance is compulsory. You have 4 weeks of absenteeism, and if you do not attend the following weeks, you will be absent.

When will my advisor be assigned?
The advisor is appointed by the end of the first semester at the latest with the recommendation of the Head of the Department and the decision of the Graduate School Executive Board.

Can I change my advisor, when and how?
You can change your advisor. You can change your advisor by filling out the Advisor Change Proposal Form (Doctorate, Master's Degree with Thesis, Master's Degree without Thesis) one month before the semester start date and submitting it to the Head of the Department and if the Department approves, you can change your advisor with the approval of the GSAB.

STUDY PERIOD AND DISMISSAL PROCESS

What is the duration of study (dropout) in graduate programs?
The normal duration of the non-thesis master's program is 2 semesters. Students who fail to graduate at the end of the maximum period (3 semesters) are dismissed.
The normal education period of the master's program with thesis is 4 semesters and the maximum period is 6 semesters. Students who fail to complete the course period (7 courses + seminar) in the master's program with thesis in 4 semesters or who pass the thesis period and fail to graduate in a total of 6 semesters are dismissed.
The normal education period of the doctorate program is 8 semesters for those admitted with a master's degree, maximum duration is 12 semesters, 10 semesters for those admitted with a bachelor's degree, maximum duration is 14 semesters.
The course period in the doctoral program is 4 semesters for those admitted with a master's degree with thesis and 6 semesters for those admitted with a bachelor's degree. At the end of this period, the student who fails to successfully complete the credited courses and seminar course or who fails to achieve a grade point average of at least 3.00 is dismissed.
Students who do not take the qualifying exam or fail the qualifying exam in the PhD Program are taken the exam again in the next semester from the written / oral exams they failed. The student who fails in this exam is dismissed from the university.
In the doctoral program, the student who does not want to take the qualifying exam in the relevant semester may not choose the qualifying course in the course registration. If he / she chooses it until the end of the 5th semester at the latest and is not successful, he / she is considered unsuccessful.
The student who does not enter the defense of the doctoral thesis proposal within 6 months at the latest without a valid excuse is considered unsuccessful and the thesis proposal is rejected. If the thesis proposal is not submitted twice in a row within the period, the student is dismissed.
A student whose doctoral thesis proposal is rejected has the right to choose a new advisor and/or thesis topic. In this case, a new thesis monitoring committee may be appointed. The student who wants to continue the program with the same advisor is taken to the thesis proposal defense within three months, and the student who changes the advisor and thesis topic is taken to the thesis proposal defense again within six months. The student whose thesis proposal is also rejected in this defense is dismissed.

How can I deregister from the program I am enrolled in?

If you apply with the "General Purpose Petition" in the information-document section on the Institute's web page, your registration is deleted on the same day. In order for the student to be deregistered, the student must not have any materials taken from the library or any other unit of the university and must attach a photocopy of his/her identity card and student ID card in addition to the petition.

REGISTRATION RENEWAL AND COURSE REGISTRATION PROCESS

Where and when can I register for my courses?
You can register by entering your student number and password at http://obs.aksaray.edu.tr/ during the periods specified in the academic calendar of the relevant semester.

There was a tuition fee in my course registration. What could be the reason?
It may be because you have exceeded the normal education period.
Since you are enrolled in another higher education (including open education) before your enrollment in our institute (except for those studying in secondary education), you will pay a tuition fee.

What is the minimum and maximum number of courses I can take in a semester?
In the Non-Thesis Master's Program, you need to take a total of 10 courses + Term Project. In a semester, you can take a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 7 courses + Term Project (which belongs to your advisor in the second semester).
In the Master's Program with Thesis, you can take a total of 7 courses (elective-compulsory) + Specialization Area (belonging to your advisor every semester) + Seminar (belonging to your advisor only one semester) + Master's Thesis (after the end of the course period until graduation). In one semester, you can take a minimum of 2 and a maximum of 5 courses (elective or compulsory) + Specialization Area Course.
In the PhD Program, you can take a total of 7 courses (elective-mandatory) + Field of Specialization (belonging to your advisor every semester) + Seminar (belonging to your advisor only one semester) Qualifying (belonging to your advisor after the end of the course period) + Doctoral Thesis (after the end of the qualifying period until graduation). You can take a minimum of 2 and a maximum of 5 courses (elective or compulsory) + Specialization Area Course in one semester.

How can I register for my courses?
You can register at http://obs.aksaray.edu.tr/ by entering your student number and password.

What should I do if I missed the registration deadline?
Within the excused course registration dates specified in the Academic Calendar:
1-Those who do not need to pay any fee will contact their advisors during the add-drop week and have their course registration approved.
2-Students who need to pay tuition or contribution money will apply to the institute with a "General Purpose Petition" stating their excuse on the specified dates. Students whose excuse is accepted by the Institute Administrative Board will pay their debts from the ATMs and contact their advisors and have their course registration approved.

Can I take another elective course instead of the elective courses I failed before?
Yes, you can.

Do I have to take the specialization, seminar and master's thesis every semester?
Specialization field course: every semester from the first semester until graduation
Seminar: only 1 time in the semester within the course semester as deemed appropriate by the advisor
Master's Thesis: from the semester in which the thesis stage is started after the end of the course period until graduation
Qualification: In the doctoral program, in the semesters after the end of the course period until successful 
Doctoral Thesis: It will be taken every semester from the semester after the successful completion of the qualifying period until graduation.

How long can I freeze my enrollment?
You can freeze your enrollment for 1 semester in non-thesis master's degree, 2 semesters in master's degree with thesis and 2 semesters in doctorate.
Students who apply to the Graduate School with a "General Purpose Petition" within the periods specified in the academic calendar may be granted the right to freeze their registration for up to two semesters for those in doctorate and master's programs with thesis, and up to one semester for those in non-thesis and distance education master's programs due to justified and valid excuses. During this period, the student cannot attend the courses and take the exams. The registration freeze period of the student who freezes his/her registration is not counted from the maximum graduate education period.

I am in the thesis period of my Master's Degree with Thesis, which courses do I need to take?
You are required to take the Master's thesis and specialization course opened on behalf of your advisor.

I am in the doctoral qualification period, which courses do I need to take?
You are required to take the Qualification and specialization course opened on behalf of your advisor.

I am in the PhD thesis period, which courses do I need to take?
You are required to take the PhD thesis and specialization course opened on behalf of your advisor.

LESSON PROCESS

How can I access the course schedules?
You can access the schedule of the courses you are enrolled in by clicking on the course schedule link from the student information system (http://obs.aksaray.edu.tr/).

What do I need to do to be successful in the seminar course?
In master's and doctoral programs with thesis, the seminar topic for students enrolled in the seminar course is determined by the advisor until the eighth week.
Seminar presentations are made during the final week upon the request of the student (seminar application form and the first page of the plagiarism report (30%) approved by the advisor), with the approval of the advisor and the approval of the head of the department, and unsuccessful students are given the opportunity to make a presentation again during the make-up week.
Seminar presentations are held in the faculty building where the head of the department is located, open to the audience.
For students who apply for seminar presentations, a calendar is created by the department chairs and announced to the instructors and students.
At the end of the seminar presentation, the advisor ensures that the seminar paper in PDF format prepared in accordance with the graduate thesis writing guide of our institute, the first page of the originality report of the seminar paper (originality rate is maximum 30%), the completed advisor seminar evaluation form and the "Seminar Participant Form" signed by the participants are sent to the institute via EBYS by the head of the department.
The student or the advisor will not submit the seminar paper to our institute as a CD, and is responsible for ensuring that it is sent to the institute in PDF format, together with other documents, through the head of the department via EBYS.

When can I submit my thesis proposal in the Master's Program with Thesis?
The thesis topic determined by the student together with his/her advisor must be submitted to the department by filling out the "Thesis Proposal Form" and "Thesis Proposal Report Sample" (not exceeding 2 pages) in the information-documents on our website until the end of the second semester at the latest and sent to the institute with the approval of the EABD / EASD head. The thesis proposal is finalized with the decision of the EYK.

What should I do if I want to change the thesis topic?
The student whose thesis proposal is accepted by the EYK must submit the "Thesis Topic Change Proposal Form" and "Thesis Proposal Report Sample" (not exceeding 2 pages) to the Graduate School through the USA.

When can I submit the term project proposal?
From the beginning of the second semester until the last day specified in the academic calendar, you must fill out the "Term Project Proposal Form" in the information-documents, submit it to the department and send it to the institute with the approval of the EABD / EASD head. The project proposal is finalized with the decision of the GSAB.

How can I find out if my thesis proposal or semester project proposal has been accepted?
After logging into the Student Automation Information System, you can check the "Thesis Information" or "Board Decisions" sections in the "General Information" menu under the "General Operations" tab.

What should I do if I want to conduct a survey for my thesis?
You need to apply to the head of the department with a petition stating where, when and how the survey study will be conducted, together with a sample of the survey study and the ethics committee approval document.

What procedures do I need to take to obtain Ethics Committee approval?
The form and documents requested from the link http://etik.aksaray.edu.tr/tr on the web page of our university must be filled in and submitted to the special pen of the Dean's Office of the Faculty of Islamic Sciences.

THESIS/SEMESTER PROJECT SUBMISSION PROCESS

MASTER'S DEGREE WITHOUT THESIS

When and how can I submit the term project?
At the end of the second semester at the earliest, at the end of the third semester at the latest, after your advisor has given a successful grade to the term project course at the end of the final or make-up exams;

1. 1 term project printed with a cardboard cover, in accordance with the thesis writing guide,
2. "Term Project Evaluation" form on the Information-Documents page (to be signed by the advisor and sent via the department),
3. "Term Project Minutes" on the Information-Documents page (to be filled in and signed by the advisor and sent via the department),
4. "Dismissal Form" on the Information-Documents page (must be signed by the advisor and the head of the department),
5. Student ID card

You must submit it to the Graduate School. After the Graduate School Executive Board accepts your project, your graduation procedures will be completed within 10 working days.

MASTER'S DEGREE WITH THESIS

I want to take the thesis defense exam, how much should the plagiarism rate be?
Your thesis, which the advisor has approved as defensible, must be sent to the Graduate School's sbe@aksaray.edu.tr address in Word format. As a result of the examination of the Institute, the plagiarism rate must be 10% from a single source and less than 30% in total. No defense date will be given for theses that exceed this rate.

What should I do if I want to take the thesis defense exam?
At the end of the 4th semester, the student who has successfully completed the required courses and whose thesis proposal has been accepted by the Graduate School Administrative Board, with the approval of the thesis to be defensible by the advisor;
1. 1 spiral printed thesis prepared according to the thesis writing guide,
2. "Thesis Exam Jury Suggestion Form" on the Information-Documents page (to be filled in by the advisor and sent to the Graduate School through the department with the date and time suggestion by determining 1 original and 1 substitute jury out of 3 original and 2 substitute juries from outside the staff of our university).
NOTE: When determining the date, it is necessary to determine a date within the date range of 15 days at the earliest and 1 month at the latest from the date of the meeting of the Graduate School Administrative Board.
3. "Thesis Defensibility and Authenticity Statement Form" (to be signed by the advisor) on the Information-Documents page
4. "Thesis Submission and Commitment Form" (to be signed by the student) on the Information-Documents page
NOTE: After the approval of the defense date by the GSAB, the student must submit one spiral-printed thesis to the jury members until one week before the defense.
Before the defense, the student must prepare the "Jury Approval Page" (5 copies with the names of the jury; the title of the thesis here must be the title accepted by the jury), "Thesis Jury Examination Report Form" and "Master's Thesis Examination Minutes Form" for each jury member and submit them to the jury members during the exam.

I was successful in the thesis defense exam. Which documents do I need to submit to the Graduate School?
After the thesis is accepted by the jury members, the student must complete the following procedures within 1 month.
After the thesis is accepted by the jury members, the thesis is sent to the Graduate School via e-mail (sbe@aksaray.edu.tr) in word and pdf format after the recommended corrections are made and the advisor's approval is obtained. After the Graduate School checks the thesis again for plagiarism and compliance with the thesis writing guide, the following procedures are carried out;
1. 2 theses prepared and bound in accordance with the Thesis Writing Guide
2. National Thesis Center Thesis Data Entry Form (2 pieces-signed) (https://tez.yok.gov.tr/UlusalTezMerkezi/)
3. "Dismissal Form" on the Information-Documentation page (1 piece)
4. "Jury Approval Page" on the Information-Document page (signed by the jury and the student - 1 piece)
5. Student ID Card
6- Those whose thesis defense is done online are required to upload the images to Flash memory and submit them to the Graduate School.
7- The CD with the complete thesis (1 piece-word and pdf) is submitted to the Graduate School. The name of the CD must be the reference number in the National Thesis Center. (The jury approval page and all other documents in the thesis will be added to the CD without signature and without your personal data (T.C. ID No, mobile phone, e-mail, picture, etc.).
8- Both Turkish and foreign students must fill out the graduate information form. (https://obs.aksaray.edu.tr/oibs/kariyer/login.aspx )
9- Only foreign students must fill out the Graduates of Turkey Graduate Information Form and submit 2 signed printouts to the Graduate School. (https://www.turkiyemezunlari.gov.tr/ )

Submitted to the Graduate School.
After the above documents are submitted in full, the thesis is submitted for the approval of the GSAB at the end of 15 days at the earliest. After the EYK's acceptance of the thesis, the student adds the approved jury approval page sent by the Graduate School to the student's e-mail address registered in the system to the thesis and submits it to the Graduate School together with the "Master's CD Cover" by adding the entire CD (2 pieces) in WORD and PDF format. The CD name must be the reference number in the National Thesis Center.

I was successful in the thesis defense exam. How long is the submission period?
You must submit the documents within 1 month from the defense date. If the excuse petition you submit to the Graduate School is deemed appropriate, you can get an additional 1-month extension. If you do not submit the documents within this period, you will be dismissed at the end of the maximum education period.

What should I do if I was given an extension for the thesis defense exam?
The student, who is given a correction decision about the thesis, defends the corrected thesis again in front of the same jury within the maximum period within three months at the latest. The student who fails again and whose thesis is not accepted is dismissed. Those whose first thesis defense exam is held at the end of the maximum period, if they receive an extension period of maximum 3 months, if this period coincides with the next semester, they must register for courses.

I failed the thesis defense exam, can I switch to a non-thesis master's program?
If the student whose thesis is rejected makes a request, he/she is given a non-thesis master's degree diploma provided that he/she has fulfilled the course credit load, project writing and similar requirements of the non-thesis master's program.

I could not attend the thesis defense exam and the Graduate School Executive Board did not accept my excuse, what happens to my student status?
Students who cannot attend the thesis defense exam due to an excuse must document their excuse. The student whose excuse is accepted by the GSAB is taken to the defense exam within one month from the end of the excuse. For whatever reason, the student who does not come to the thesis defense exam without an excuse or whose excuse is not accepted by the EYK is considered unsuccessful and the student is dismissed.

DOCTORATE

When can I take the doctoral qualifying exam?
After successfully completing the courses, the student applies to the head of the EABD with the "Qualifying Exam Application Form" stating that he / she wants to take the qualifying exam with the approval of the advisor. The doctoral qualifying committee fills out the "Qualifying Jury Recommendation Form" and sends it to the Graduate School by determining the date, time and place where the student will take the qualifying exam. Qualifying exams are held twice a year, in January-June and July-December. Students admitted with a master's degree must take the qualifying exam until the end of the fifth semester at the latest, and students admitted with a bachelor's degree must take the qualifying exam until the end of the seventh semester at the latest.

How many points do I need to get to be successful in the qualifying exam?
The doctoral qualifying exam is conducted in two parts: written and oral. Students who are successful in the written exam take the oral exam. In order to be considered successful in the written or oral exam, the student must score at least 75 points out of 100 in both exams separately. As a result of this exam, the advisor submits the written exam documents to the Graduate School and ensures that the "Doctoral Qualifying Examination Minutes Form" is submitted to the Graduate School via the USA within 3 business days at the latest.

How and from whom will the thesis monitoring committee consist?
For the student who is successful in the doctoral qualifying exam, a thesis monitoring committee is formed within one month with the recommendation of the advisor (Thesis Monitoring Committee Proposal Form), the approval of the department board and the approval of the EYK. The thesis monitoring committee consists of three faculty members. In addition to the thesis advisor, the committee includes one member from within and outside the Institute Main Science Separtment (IMSD) / Institute Main Art Branch (IMAB). If a second thesis advisor is appointed, the second thesis advisor can attend the committee meetings if he/she wishes, but cannot be a member of the thesis monitoring committee.  In the semesters following the establishment of the thesis monitoring committee, the committee members may be changed with the justified recommendation of the department board and the approval of the Graduate School Executive Board (GSEB).

I want to take the thesis proposal defense, what should I do?
Upon successful completion of the doctoral qualifying exam, the student defends his/her thesis proposal (thesis proposal defense application form) orally before the thesis monitoring committee within six months at the latest. The student distributes a written report on the thesis proposal to the committee members at least fifteen days before the oral defense. At the end of the defense exam, the thesis proposal defense exam minutes form and the thesis proposal report sample are filled out for the student and submitted to the Graduate School through the USA.

What should I do if I want to change the thesis topic?
The student whose thesis proposal is accepted by the GSAB must submit the thesis topic change proposal form to the Graduate School via the USA. After the approval of the GSAB, the process starts again.

My thesis proposal has been accepted, when can I submit the first Thesis Monitoring Committee (TMC) report?
For a student whose thesis proposal is accepted, the thesis monitoring committee meets twice a year, once in January-June and once in July-December, at the end of six months at the earliest from the date the proposal is accepted. With the approval of the advisor, the student submits a written report to the committee members at least one month before the meeting date.
If there is a faculty member from outside the university in the thesis monitoring committee, the student must notify the Graduate School with a petition at least 1 week in advance.

Can the members of the Thesis Monitoring Committee be changed?
In the semesters following the establishment of the thesis monitoring committee, changes can be made in the committee members with the justified recommendation of the department board and the approval of the EYK.

(If applicable) Can the second thesis advisor be a member of the Thesis Monitoring Committee?
If a second thesis advisor is appointed, the second thesis advisor can attend the committee meetings if he/she wishes, but cannot be a member of the thesis monitoring committee.

How many TİKs do I need to pass in order to enter the thesis defense?
In order for the student to submit his/her doctoral thesis to the Graduate School, he/she must be deemed successful by the thesis monitoring committee at least three times if he/she has applied with a master's degree with thesis and at least four times if he/she has applied with a bachelor's degree. The advisor sends the Thesis Monitoring Committee Interim Report Form and report to the Graduate School through the USA after the committee meeting.

I want to take the thesis defense exam, how much should the plagiarism rate be?
The advisor must send your thesis, which is approved as defensible by the advisor, to the Graduate School's sbe@aksaray.edu.tr address in word format. As a result of the Institute's examination, if the plagiarism rate is below 10% from a single source and 30% in total, you can apply for a defense date. No defense date will be given for theses exceeding this rate.

Which documents do I need to prepare if I want to take the PhD Thesis defense exam?
The student whose plagiarism rate is below the rates determined by the Institute must prepare the following documents.
Documents Required to Receive a Defense Date:
1. Thesis Defense Jury Recommendation Form (within 15 days at the earliest and 1 month at the latest from the date of the board of directors)
2. Thesis Defensibility and Originality Form (signed by the advisor)
3. Thesis Submission Commitment Form (Student signed)
4. First page of the plagiarism report (signed by the advisor)
5. 5-Online Thesis Defense Exam Skype Addresses Form (Juries and students are required to create skype addresses and add "Sbe Aksaray" which is the skype address of the Institute).
6- For doctoral students (In accordance with paragraph 8 of Article 51 of the Graduate Education and Examination Regulations of our University, it has been determined as a prerequisite for students who have been successful in the qualifying exam as of the Spring Semester of the 2017-2018 Academic Year, at least one scientific article to be prepared together with the advisor; to be published / accepted for publication in a refereed journal (DOI number or receiving an acceptance letter from the journal editorial board) has been determined as a prerequisite for the student to take the doctoral thesis defense exam).

These documents will be sent from EBYS through the Department 
Documents to be prepared by the student while coming to the exam:
1. Doctoral thesis exam minutes form (Jury names and student information written - 1 piece)
2. Doctoral thesis jury review report form (Student information written and one for each jury - 5 pieces)
3. Jury Approval Page (Jury names written - 3 pieces)
To be filled in and printed out in computer environment

Who is the doctoral thesis defense jury?
The thesis exam jury proposal form to be filled by the advisor must consist of 5 original and 2 substitute jurors. The thesis monitoring committee is a natural member of this jury. The other 2 main and 1 substitute jury must be determined from outside the staff of our university and sent to the institute through the department with the date and time proposal.

NOTE: After the approval of the defense date by the GSAB, the student must submit one spiral-printed thesis to the jury members at least 1 week before the defense date.

Who can attend the thesis defense exam?
Thesis defense meetings are open to an audience consisting of faculty members, graduate students and experts in the field. The exam consists of the presentation of the thesis work followed by a question and answer session.

I was successful in the thesis defense exam. How will the next process work?
The minutes of the doctoral thesis defense exam signed by the jury members are sent to the institute within 3 working days following the thesis exam by the head of the department.
After the thesis is accepted by the jury members, the student must complete the following procedures within 1 month.

With the acceptance of the thesis by the jury members, the student sends the thesis to the Graduate School via e-mail (sbe@aksaray.edu.tr) after the approval of the advisor. The following procedures are carried out after the Graduate School checks for plagiarism and compliance with the thesis writing guide;
1. 2 bound theses prepared in accordance with the Thesis Writing Guide
2. National Thesis Center Thesis Data Entry Form (2 pieces-signed) printout (https://tez.yok.gov.tr/UlusalTezMerkezi/)
3. Disassociation Form on the Information-Documentation page (1 piece)
4. Jury Approval Page on the Information-Documentation page (Signed - 1 Piece)
5. Student ID Card
6- Those whose thesis defense is done online are required to upload the images to Flash memory and submit them to the Graduate School.
7- The CD containing the entire thesis (1 piece-word and pdf) is submitted to the Graduate School. The name of the CD must be the reference number in the National Thesis Center. (The jury approval page and all other documents in the thesis will be added to the CD without signature and without your personal data (T.C. ID No, mobile phone, e-mail, picture, etc.).
8-Both Turkish and foreign students are required to fill out the graduate information form. (https://obs.aksaray.edu.tr/oibs/kariyer/login.aspx )
9- Only foreign students must fill out the Graduates of Turkey Graduate Information Form and submit 2 signed printouts to the Graduate School. (https://www.turkiyemezunlari.gov.tr/ )
Submitted to the Graduate School.
The documents requested above are submitted in full. The thesis is submitted for the approval of the GSAB after 15 days at the earliest. After the approval of the GSAB, the Graduate School sends the signed jury approval page to the student's e-mail address registered in the system. The student adds it to the thesis and submits it to the Graduate School by uploading it to CD (2 pieces) in Word and PDF format. The CD name must be the reference number in the National Thesis Center.

I failed the thesis defense exam. Will I be dismissed?
Students whose thesis is rejected as unsuccessful are dismissed.

A correction was given about my thesis at the end of the thesis defense exam. What should I do?
The student who is given a correction decision about his/her thesis defends his/her thesis again in front of the same jury by making the necessary corrections within six months at the latest. The student who fails again after the defense is dismissed from the university.

I failed the Doctoral Thesis Defense exam. Can I get a master's degree without thesis?
Those who cannot complete their credited courses and/or thesis study within the maximum period of time, and those who are not successful in their doctoral thesis are awarded a non-thesis master's degree diploma upon request, provided that they have fulfilled the credit load, project and other similar requirements for a non-thesis master's degree.