Question 1: What steps should I go through to apply to your graduate programs?

Answer 1: First, you must make sure that you meet the undergraduate graduation requirement. Then, you must get at least 55 points from the ALES exam in the field specified in the application conditions. For the PhD program, it is also required to get at least 55 points from the Foreign Language Exam. Applications are generally accepted in the fall and spring semesters specified in the academic calendar.

Question 2: What is the minimum ALES score required to apply to graduate programs?

Answer 2: To apply for graduate programs, you must get at least 55 points from the ALES exam. This score is among the application requirements and will be taken into account in your application process.

Question 3: Which language proficiency exam do I need to pass to apply for a PhD program?

Answer 3: To apply for the PhD program, you must get at least 55 points from the Foreign Language Exam. This language proficiency score is an important factor in the admission process to the doctoral program.

Question: Can I apply to more than one graduate program when applying to your institute?

Answer: Yes, when applying, you can apply for a Non-Thesis Master's program and a Thesis Master's program or a Non-Thesis Master's program and a PhD program, depending on your Institute. During the evaluation of your applications, eligibility and acceptance criteria for your preferred programs will be taken into consideration.

Question 1: Is there an obligation to pay fees for Master's and Doctoral programs with thesis?

Answer 1: No, Master's and Doctoral programs with thesis are free. However, if graduation is not possible within the normal period, a certain fee may be required until the maximum period expires.

Question 2: How are the fees determined for non-thesis Master's programs?

Answer 2: Non-thesis Master's programs are paid and their total fee is 5500.00 TL. This fee is collected at the beginning of the semester in two equal installments.

Question 3: What is the fee policy in Distance Education Non-Thesis Master's programs?

Answer 3: Distance Education Non-Thesis Master's programs are paid and their total fee is 6500.00 TL. This fee is collected at the beginning of the semester in two equal installments.

Question 4: Are there free or discounted tuition advantages in non-thesis Master's programs?

Answer 4: Yes, in Non-Thesis Master's programs, it is free for the relatives of martyrs and veterans, and discounts are applied for the disabled according to their disability rates.

Question 5: What is the special wage policy for the employees of the institution with which the protocol is signed for non-thesis Master's programs?

Answer 5: The fee for non-thesis Master's programs is 3400 TL for the employees of the institutions with which the protocol is signed.

Question 6: What is the total fee for Non-Thesis Master's programs for Aksaray University staff?

Answer 6: The total fee for Non-Thesis Master's programs for Aksaray University staff is 2000 TL.

Question 1: What are the military service postponement (extension) periods in graduate programs?

Answer 1: The military service postponement period for non-thesis master's programs is 1.5 years, for master's programs with thesis it is 3 years, and for doctoral programs it is 6 years.

Question 2: Who carries out military service postponement procedures?

Answer 2: Military service postponement procedures are carried out by the institute. Applications are generally made within 1 month from the date of registration to the institute.

Question: What process should I follow to apply for a scholarship or education loan?

Answer: You can apply for scholarships or education loans at www.kyk.gov.tr on the dates determined by the Credit and Hostels Institution and in accordance with the conditions of the institution. Relevant dates and application conditions are announced on the official website of the institution.

Question: I want to transfer to your institute's graduate programs. How can I complete this process?

Answer: Students who want to transfer can apply from the graduate programs of a higher education institution to the equivalent graduate programs of our institute. These applications must be made with a petition on the dates specified in the academic calendar of our institute.

For detailed information, you can review the document at http://sbe.aksaray.edu.tr/dosya/a9debbf9-d26f-4bdc-ae8d-4464d0097de9.pdf.

Question: How can I apply to your institute's graduate programs as a private student?

Answer: Students enrolled in a master's, doctorate or proficiency in arts program can apply as special students to attend postgraduate courses at other higher education institutions. For this application, the student must obtain the approval of the department head of the institute in which he/she is registered.

Exemption procedures for the courses that the applicant students take as private students and are successful in are carried out by the head of the department of science/major art of the institute in which they are registered. To get detailed information about this process, you can consult the official resources of the relevant institute or contact the relevant unit.

Question: How can I apply to your institute's graduate programs as a private student?

Answer: Students enrolled in a master's, doctorate or proficiency in arts program can apply as special students to attend postgraduate courses at other higher education institutions.

Question: What type of approval is needed for this application?

Answer: Students who apply must obtain the approval of the head of the department of science/art of the institute in which they are registered. Applications are generally accepted after this approval.

Question: How are the exemption procedures for courses taken as a private student carried out?

Answer: Exemption procedures for the courses that students take as private students and are successful in are carried out by the head of the department of science/major art of the institute in which they are registered. Exemption procedures are generally carried out depending on the content of the course taken by the student and the program to which he/she is accepted.

Question: How many courses can I take as a private student?

Answer: Private students can take a maximum of 3 courses from the courses opened during the semester. This limitation determines the number of courses private students can take and generally applies to course selection during the semester.

Will I pay fees for the courses I take as a private student?

Students and research assistants enrolled in a graduate program at a higher education institution do not pay any fees for the courses they take as special students.

Question: Will I pay fees for the courses I take as a private student?

Answer: No, students and research assistants enrolled in a graduate program at a higher education institution do not pay any fees for the courses they take as special students. In this case, you do not need to pay any additional fee for the courses you attend as a private student.

Question: I registered for graduate programs at your institute. What is my username and password?

Answer: Your username is your student number given to you when you registered at the institute. Your password is sent to your e-mail address or mobile phone that you registered in the system after the final registration process is completed. You must wait for your registration to be completed to receive your password.

Question: On what dates can I register for courses?

Answer: In order to register for your course, you must complete the transaction between the dates specified in the academic calendar. These dates in the academic calendar are generally announced on the university's official website, and you can visit https://ogris.aksaray.edu.tr/akademik-takvim to access up-to-date information.

For Non-Thesis Master's Program:

Question 1: How many courses do I need to take in the non-thesis Master's program?

Answer 1: In the non-thesis Master's program, you are required to take a total of 10 courses and a term project. In one semester, you can take at least 3 and at most 7 courses and a term project (belonging to your advisor in the second semester).

For Master's Program with Thesis:

Question 2: How many courses do I need to take in the Thesis Master's program?

Answer 2: In the Thesis Master's program, there are a total of 7 courses (elective-compulsory), a specialization course (belonging to your advisor each semester), a seminar (belonging to your advisor only for one semester) and a master's thesis (after the end of the course period, every semester until graduation). ) You can take.

For PhD Program:

Question 3: How many courses do I need to take in the PhD program?

Answer 3: In the doctoral program, there are a total of 7 courses (elective-compulsory), specialization course (belonging to your advisor in each semester), seminar (belonging to your advisor only for one semester), qualification course (belonging to your advisor only during the qualification period) and doctoral thesis (qualification). After the semester, you can get it (which belongs to your advisor) every semester until you graduate.

Question 1: When can I get a student ID card?

Answer 1: You can get your student ID card from our Institute's student affairs office 2 weeks after the start of education.

Question 2: When and how can I get a student certificate?

Answer 2: You can obtain your student certificate via e-government or by applying to the Institute Registrar's Office after registering for the course. This document can be accessed after course registration is completed.

Question 1: Where are graduate courses held?

Answer 1: Postgraduate courses are held in the institute classrooms of the faculties where the program is opened. The courses specified as "ASUZEM" in the curriculum are given via distance education.

Question 2: Is it compulsory to attend postgraduate courses?

Answer 2: Yes, attendance at postgraduate courses is mandatory. You have the right to be absent for 4 weeks. However, if you do not attend in the following weeks, you may be considered unsuccessful due to non-attendance.

Question 3: When will my advisor be appointed?

Answer 3: The advisor is appointed by the recommendation of the Department Head and the decision of the Institute Board of Directors by the end of the first semester at the latest. Your advisor will guide you through your academic processes and provide guidance regarding your program.

Question: Can I change consultants, when and how?

Answer: Yes, you can change advisors. You can change your advisor with the approval of the Institute Board of Directors, if the Advisor Change Recommendation Form (Ph.D., Thesis Master's, Non-Thesis Master's) is filled out and submitted to the Head of the Department 1 month before the semester start date, and if the Department deems it appropriate.

For Non-Thesis Master's Program:

Question 1: What is the education period for the Non-Thesis Master's program?

Answer 1: The normal education period for the Non-thesis Master's program is 2 semesters. The student who cannot graduate at the end of the maximum period (3 semesters) will be dismissed.

For Master's Program with Thesis:

Question 2: What is the education period for the Thesis Master's program?

Answer 2: The normal education period of the Thesis Master's program is 4 semesters, the maximum duration is 6 semesters. The student who cannot complete the course period (7 lessons + seminar) in 4 semesters or who cannot proceed to the thesis period and graduate in 6 semesters in total will be dismissed.

For PhD Program:

Question 3: What is the study duration of the PhD program?

Answer 3: The normal education period of the doctoral program is 8 semesters for those accepted with a master's degree, the maximum duration is 12 semesters; For those accepted with a bachelor's degree, the duration is 10 semesters, the maximum duration is 14 semesters.

Question 4: Does the course period affect the duration of study in the doctoral program?

Answer 4: The course period in the doctoral program is 4 semesters for those accepted with a master's degree with thesis and 6 semesters for those accepted with a bachelor's degree. At the end of this period, the student who cannot successfully complete the credit courses and the seminar course or who cannot achieve a GPA of at least 3.00 will be dismissed.

Question 5: How can I apply for the qualifying exam in the PhD program?

Answer 5: A student who wants to take the qualifying exam in a doctoral program is considered unsuccessful if he/she does not pass the exam by the end of the 5th semester at the latest. A student who does not want to take the proficiency exam may not choose the proficiency course during course registration.

Question 6: When should I attend the defense of my doctoral thesis proposal without a valid excuse?

Answer 6: A student who does not attend the doctoral thesis proposal defense within 6 months at the latest without a valid excuse is considered unsuccessful and the thesis proposal is rejected.

Question: How can I delete my registration from the program I am registered to?

Answer: To cancel your registration, you must fill out the "General Purpose Petition" form on the Institute's website and apply. When you apply with this petition, your registration will be deleted on the same day. However, in order for your registration to be deleted, it is important that you do not have any materials received from the library or any unit of the university. Additionally, you must attach a photocopy of your identity card and student ID card to your petition.

Question 1: From which address and when can I register for my course?

Answer 1: You can register for courses using your student number and password at http://obs.aksaray.edu.tr/ during the periods specified in the academic calendar of the relevant semester.

Question 2: Tuition fee appeared in my course registration. Why could it be?

Answer 2: Incurring tuition fees may be due to the following reasons:

It may be because you exceeded the normal education period.

Since you are enrolled in another higher education (including open education) before your registration to our institute (except for those studying in evening education), you may be required to pay tuition fees.


For Non-Thesis Master's Program:

Question 1: How many courses can I take in a semester?

Answer 1: In the Non-Thesis Master's Program, you can take at least 3 and at most 7 courses + Term Project (belonging to your advisor in the second semester) in a semester.

For Master's Program with Thesis:

Question 2: How many courses can I take in a semester?

Answer 2: In the Thesis Master's Program, you can take at least 2 and at most 5 courses (elective or compulsory) + Specialization Field Course in a semester.

For PhD Program:

Question 3: How many courses can I take in a semester?

Answer 3: In the PhD Program, you can take at least 2 and at most 5 courses (elective or compulsory) + Specialization Field Course in a semester.

Question: How can I register for a course?

Answer: You can register for your course by going to http://obs.aksaray.edu.tr/ and using your student number and password.


If you missed the course registration dates, you can follow the steps below:

Add-Delete Week:

For those who do not need to pay fees, contact your advisor during the add-drop week to confirm your course registration.
Those who need to pay fees:

Students who need to pay tuition fees or contribution money must apply to the Institute with a "General Purpose Petition" stating their excuses within the specified dates.
Students whose excuses are accepted by the Board of Directors of the Institute must make transactions through ATMs or other payment methods to pay their debts.
Then, they must contact their advisors and have their course registration approved.
It is important to contact the Institute to state your excuse and complete the process. When taking these steps, it would be best to follow the procedures determined by the Institute.

Question 1: Can I take another elective course instead of the elective courses I failed before?

Answer 1: Yes, you can take another elective course instead of the elective courses you failed.

Question 2: Do I have to take the specialization, seminar and master's thesis every semester?

Answer 2:

You must take the specialization course every semester, starting from the first semester until you graduate.
You only need to take the seminar once, whenever your advisor deems it appropriate.
You must take the Master's Thesis every semester, starting from the semester in which the thesis phase begins after the end of the course period, until you graduate.
Question 3: When can I get the doctoral thesis in my field of specialization, which must be completed after the seminar and lecture period, before taking the qualifying exam?

Answer 3: It is recommended that you do not take the specialty course before taking the qualifying exam, the seminar and the doctoral thesis that you must take after the course period, until you pass the qualifying exam. After the qualifying exam, you can take this course and thesis and continue until you graduate.

Question: How long can I freeze my registration?

Reply:

1 semester in Non-Thesis Master's Program,
2 semesters in the Thesis Master's Program,
You can suspend your registration in the PhD Program for 2 semesters.
If you apply to the Institute with a "General Purpose Petition" stating your justified and valid excuse, within the periods specified in the academic calendar, you will be given a maximum of two semesters for students in doctoral and thesis master's programs, and a maximum of one semester for students in non-thesis and distance learning master's programs. The right to freeze registration may be granted. During this period, the student cannot attend classes or take exams. The registration suspension period of the student who suspends his/her registration is not counted towards the maximum postgraduate education period.

For Master's Thesis Term:

Question: I am in the thesis period for my master's degree with thesis, which courses do I need to take?

Answer: During the Master's thesis period, you must take the Master's thesis and the specialization course opened on behalf of your advisor.

For the PhD Qualification Period:

Question: I am in the doctoral qualification period, what courses do I need to take?

Answer: During the doctoral qualification period, you must take the Proficiency and Specialization course opened on behalf of your advisor.

For PhD Thesis Period:

Question: I am in my doctoral thesis period, what courses do I need to take?

Answer: During the doctoral thesis period, you must take the doctoral thesis and the specialization course opened on behalf of your advisor.

Question: How can I access the course schedules?

Answer: To access the course schedules, log in to the student information system (http://obs.aksaray.edu.tr/) and click on the course schedule link to access the schedule of the courses you are registered for.


Question: To be successful in the seminar course:

Answer: Determining the Seminar Topic:

In master's and doctoral programs with thesis, the seminar topic for students enrolled in the seminar course is determined by the advisor until the eighth week.
Seminar Presentation Preparation:

To prepare the content of the seminar presentation, study the literature on the subject under the guidance of your advisor.
Determine the layout, headings, and main points of your presentation.
Presentation Schedule:

The calendar of seminar presentations is created by the department chairs and announced to the students.
Making the Presentation:

The seminar presentation is made open to the audience in the faculty building where the department chair is located.
During the presentation, be careful to express your topic clearly and understandably.
Seminar Evaluation:

At the end of the seminar, the advisor sends the seminar assignment prepared according to certain criteria, the originality report (not exceeding 30%), the advisor seminar evaluation form and the "Seminar Participant Form" signed by the participants to the institute through the department head.
Document Submission:

The student or advisor sends the seminar assignment in PDF format, not as a CD, along with other documents, to the Institute Information Management System (EBYS) through the department chair.
Second Presentation Opportunity:

Students who fail are given the opportunity to make a presentation again during the make-up week.
Suggestion:

Communicate regularly with your advisor and seek guidance during the seminar preparation and presentation process.

Answer: The student must fill out the "Thesis Proposal Form" and "Thesis Proposal Report Sample" (not exceeding 2 pages) on our website and submit it to the Department, with the approval of the Chairman of the Education and Training Executive Board (EYK), on the thesis topic determined by his/her advisor, by the end of the second semester at the latest. It must be sent to the institute along with The thesis proposal becomes final with the decision of the IAB.

Question: If you want to make changes to the thesis topic:

Answer: Filling out the Thesis Topic Change Suggestion Form:

Fill out the "Thesis Topic Change Suggestion Form". This form is usually provided by the Institute or can be found on the Institute website.
Preparing the Thesis Proposal Report:

Fill out the "Thesis Proposal Report Sample" (not to exceed 2 pages). This report should include the new thesis topic, justifications and reasons for the change.
Application to the Department:

Submit the forms you have prepared, together with the thesis proposal report, to the relevant Department (USA). This process may also require the approval of your thesis advisor.
Sending to the Institute:

After evaluation by the Department, send the documents via the USA for forwarding to the Graduate School.
EYK Approval:

If the thesis topic change proposal is evaluated and accepted by the Institute Board of Directors (EYK), your thesis topic will officially change.
In this process, it is important to obtain your consultant's approval and prepare the necessary documents completely. The thesis topic change proposal is officially updated when it is accepted by the Institute.

For term project proposal:

Filling out the Project Suggestion Form:

Fill out the "Term Project Proposal Form" from the beginning of the second semester until the last day specified in the academic calendar. This form is usually provided by the Institute or can be found on the Institute website.
Application to the Department:

Submit the completed project proposal form to the relevant Department (USA). You may need to get your advisor's approval during this process.
Obtaining Approval and Signature:

After the project proposal is approved by the Head of the Department, it is sent to the Institute for the approval of the Chairman of the Institute Board of Directors (EYK).
EYK Approval:

If the IAB evaluates and accepts the project proposal, the term project officially begins.
In this process, it is important to obtain your consultant's approval and prepare the necessary documents completely and completely. If the project proposal is accepted by the Institute, it will be finalized by the decision of the IAB and you will have the right to officially start the term project.

You can follow the steps below to find out whether your thesis proposal or term project proposal has been accepted:

Introduction to Student Automation Information System:

Log in to the Student Automation Information System (http://obs.aksaray.edu.tr/) with your username and password.
General Operations Tab:

From the home page, go to the "General Operations" tab.
Thesis Information or Board of Directors Decisions:

In the "General Operations" menu, select one of the "Thesis Information" or "Board of Directors Decisions" sections.
Control and Obtaining Information:

Check information regarding the status of the thesis proposal or term project proposal from your chosen department. The decisions adopted may be included in the Board of Directors Decisions section.
By following these steps, you can check your student information in the student information system in the Thesis Information or Board Decisions sections and find out whether the thesis proposal or term project proposal has been accepted.

Question: I want to conduct a survey for my thesis, what should I do?

Answer: You can follow the steps below to obtain permission for the survey:

Petition Preparation:

Prepare a petition stating where, when and how you want to conduct your survey. In the petition, you must clearly state the purpose, method and target audience of the study.
Add Survey Example:

Include a copy of the survey you plan to use as an attachment to your petition. It should contain detailed information about the questions, format and purposes of the survey.
Ethics Committee Approval Certificate:

You must obtain ethics committee approval for your survey study. You must submit the approval document received from the ethics committee along with your petition.
Application to the Head of Department:

Apply to the head of the department with the petition, survey sample and ethics committee approval document you have prepared.
Follow the Permission and Approval Process:

Following your application, follow the results of the evaluation to be made by the department head and, if necessary, the ethics committee. Once approval is received, you can carry out your work as planned.

What steps do I need to take to obtain Ethics Committee approval?

The forms and documents requested from the link http://etik.aksaray.edu.tr/tr on our university's website must be filled in and submitted to the private office of the Dean of the Faculty of Islamic Sciences.

Question: What steps do I need to follow to obtain Ethics Committee approval?

Answer: To obtain Ethics Committee approval, you must fill out the requested forms and documents on our University's website at http://etik.aksaray.edu.tr/tr and submit them to the special secretary of the Dean's Office of the Faculty of Islamic Sciences.


Question: When and how can I submit the term project?

Answer: You must submit the term project at the end of the second semester at the earliest, and at the end of the third semester at the latest after your advisor enters the term project course with a passing grade after the final or make-up exams. The documents required for submission are:

1 term project, printed in paperback, in accordance with the thesis writing guide,
"Semester Project Evaluation" form on the Information-Documents page (to be signed by the advisor and sent through the department),
"Term Project Report" on the Information-Documents page (to be filled and signed by the advisor and sent through the department),
"Disconnection Form" on the Information-Documents page (must be signed by the advisor and the head of the department),
Student ID card.
After your project is accepted by the Institute Board of Directors, your graduation process will be completed within 10 business days.

Question: Where should I send my plagiarism rate to take the thesis defense exam?
Answer: Students who want to take the thesis defense exam must send their theses in Word format to the Institute's address sbe@aksaray.edu.tr after receiving the defensible approval of their advisors.

Question: How is the plagiarism rate evaluated?
Answer: The Institute determines the plagiarism rate of the theses as a result of the examinations. According to this evaluation, the plagiarism rate of the thesis from a single source should be below 10%, and the total plagiarism rate should be below 30%.

Question: What kind of precautions are taken for theses that exceed the plagiarism rate rules?
Answer: No defense date will be given for theses that exceed the plagiarism rate rules. Therefore, students should take care to keep plagiarism rates within specified limits.

I understand Now I create question and answer pairs derived from this information:

Question: What steps should I follow to take the thesis defense exam in a master's program with thesis?
Answer: Students who want to take the thesis defense exam in a master's program with thesis must have their successfully completed courses approved as defensible by their advisors, together with the accepted thesis proposal. Documents required for defense include the thesis, jury recommendation form, defensibility statement and thesis submission and commitment form.

Question: How is the thesis defense exam jury determined?
Answer: The thesis defense exam jury is determined by the "Thesis Exam Jury Recommendation Form" filled out by the advisor. In this form, 3 main and 2 substitute jurors are recommended. At least one main and one substitute jury member is determined from outside the university staff. This form, along with the date and time recommendation, is sent to the Institute through the department.

Question: How is the defense date determined and when should it be delivered to the jury?
Answer: The defense date is determined between 15 days at the earliest and 1 month at the latest from the date of the Institute Board of Directors meeting. After the defense date is approved by the IAB, the student must deliver one spiral printed thesis to the jury members until one week before the defense.


Question: What documents do I need to submit to the Institute after I pass the thesis defense exam in the thesis master's program?
Answer: After you pass the thesis defense exam in the thesis master's program, you must submit the following documents to the Institute:

Two theses are bound in accordance with the Thesis Writing Guide.
National Thesis Center Thesis Data Entry Form (2 Pieces - Signed) (https://tez.yok.gov.tr/UlusalTezMerkezi/)
"Disconnection Form" (1 Piece)
"Jury Approval Page" (Signed by the jury and the student - 1 piece)
Student ID Card
If the thesis defense was held online, a Flash memory containing the images.
A CD containing the entire thesis (1 piece - in Word and PDF format). The CD name must include the reference number available at the National Thesis Center.
Alumni Information Form for Turkish and Foreign students. (https://obs.aksaray.edu.tr/oibs/kariyer/login.aspx)
Turkey Alumni Alumni Information Form for foreign students only. (https://www.turkiyemezunlari.gov.tr/)
Question: What should I do after the thesis is accepted?
Answer: After the thesis is accepted, you must attach the thesis to the CD (2 pieces) in WORD and PDF formats by adding the jury approval page approved by the student. The title of the CD must include the reference number available at the National Thesis Center. It must be submitted to the Institute together with the CD and "Master's Degree CD Cover". After these documents are submitted in full, they are submitted to the IAB by the Institute and the graduation process is completed after the approval of the IAB.

Question: I was successful in the thesis defense exam in the thesis master's program. How long is the delivery time for documents?
Answer: After being successful in the thesis defense exam, the deadline to submit the necessary documents is 1 month from the date of defense. However, if deemed appropriate by the Institute as a result of an excuse petition, the student may request an additional period of 1 month. If the documents are not submitted within this period, the student will be dismissed at the end of the maximum education period.

Question: I was given an extension in the thesis defense exam in the thesis master's program, what should I do?
Answer: In the thesis master's program, the student who is decided to correct the thesis must defend the corrected thesis in front of the same jury within three months at the latest. If the student does not defend or fails within this period, the student will be dismissed. If an extension has been received, the student may be required to register for courses.

Question: I failed the thesis defense exam in the thesis master's program, can I transfer to a non-thesis master's degree?
Answer: A student whose thesis is rejected in a thesis master's program can transfer to a non-thesis master's program. For this transfer, the student must have fulfilled the course credit load, project writing and similar requirements of the non-thesis master's program.

Question: I could not attend the thesis defense exam in the thesis master's program and the Institute Board of Directors did not accept my excuse. What happens to my student status?
Answer: A student who cannot attend the thesis defense exam due to an excuse must document his excuse. The student whose excuse is accepted by the EYK takes the defense exam within one month from the end of the excuse. However, a student who does not have an excuse or whose excuse is not accepted by EYK is considered unsuccessful and the student is dismissed.

Question 1: When is the qualification exam taken?
Answer 1: Qualification exams are held twice a year, in January-June and July-December. Students accepted with a master's degree must take the proficiency exam by the end of the fifth semester at the latest. A student who has been accepted with an undergraduate degree must take the proficiency exam by the end of the seventh semester at the latest.

Question 2: How does the qualifying exam entry process work?
Answer 2: After successfully completing the courses, the student, with the approval of the advisor, applies to the E ABD presidency with the "Proficiency Exam Application Form" stating that he/she wants to take the proficiency exam. The PhD qualification committee fills out the "Qualification Jury Recommendation Form", determines the date, time and place where the student will take the qualification exam and sends it to the Institute.

Question 3: What documents are required to enter the qualification exam?
Answer 3: In order to take the proficiency exam, the student must fill out the "Qualification Exam Application Form" approved by the advisor. In addition, the doctoral qualification committee must fill out the "Qualification Jury Recommendation Form" and send it to the Graduate School to determine the student's exam date.

Question: How many points do I need to get to pass the proficiency exam?
Answer: The qualification exam consists of two parts: written and oral. It was necessary to get at least 75 points from both sections separately.

Question: When will the qualification exam results be announced?
Answer: The qualification exam results are announced within 3 business days at the latest after the written exam documents are delivered to the Institute by the advisor and the "PhD Qualifying Exam Report Form" is forwarded to the Institute via the USA.

Question: How and who will the Doctoral Thesis Monitoring Committee consist of?
Answer: For the student who successfully completes the doctoral qualifying exam, a thesis monitoring committee is formed within one month, with the recommendation of the advisor (Thesis Monitoring Committee Recommendation Form), the approval of the department board and the approval of the IAB. The committee consists of three faculty members. In addition to the thesis advisor, one member each from within and outside E ABD/EASD is also included in the committee. If a second thesis advisor is appointed, the second thesis advisor can attend committee meetings but cannot be a member of the thesis monitoring committee. In the semesters following the establishment of the thesis monitoring committee, changes in committee members can be made with the reasoned proposal of the department board and the approval of the IAB.

Question: How many members are there in the thesis monitoring committee?
Answer: The thesis monitoring committee consists of three faculty members. These members include the thesis advisor, one member from within the department and one member from outside the department.

Question: Can changes be made in the thesis monitoring committee?
Answer: Yes, in the semesters after the establishment of the thesis monitoring committee, changes can be made in the committee members with the reasoned proposal of the department board and the approval of the IAB.

Question: I want to defend my doctoral thesis proposal, what should I do?
Answer: After successfully completing the PhD qualifying exam, you must follow the steps below to defend your thesis proposal:

You must fill out the thesis proposal defense application form within the period determined by the Institute.

You must form a thesis monitoring committee and obtain the approval of your thesis advisor.

You must prepare a written report regarding the thesis proposal and distribute it to the members of the thesis monitoring committee at least fifteen days before the defense date.

You must attend the defense exam preparedly.

After the defense exam, you must fill out the thesis proposal defense exam report form and attach the thesis proposal report sample and ensure that it is forwarded to the Institute via the USA.

By following these steps, you can successfully defend your doctoral thesis proposal.


Question: I want to make a change in my doctoral thesis, what should I do?
Answer: If you want to make changes to your doctoral thesis, you should follow the steps below:

You must fill out the proposal form containing the change in the thesis proposal.

You must send the completed form to the Institute Board of Directors (EYK) through the Department of Science (USA).

Your suggestion must be accepted by the EYK. After the approval of the IAB, the process regarding the new thesis topic begins again.

By following these steps, you can start the process of making changes to your doctoral thesis.

Question: My thesis proposal has been accepted, when can I submit the first Thesis Monitoring Committee (TIC) report?
Answer: You can submit the first Thesis Monitoring Committee (TIC) report for the student whose thesis proposal is accepted, at one of the meetings held twice a year, at the earliest at the end of six months from the date of acceptance of the proposal. Meetings take place between January-June and July-December. Beforehand, you must submit a written report to the committee members, with the approval of your advisor, at least one month before the meeting date.

Additionally, if there is a faculty member from outside the university in the thesis monitoring committee, you must notify the Institute of this situation with a petition at least 1 week in advance.

Question: Can changes be made in the thesis monitoring committee members in the doctoral program?
Answer: Yes, in the semesters after the establishment of the thesis monitoring committee in the doctoral program, changes in the committee members can be made with the reasoned proposal of the department board and the approval of the IAB.

Question: Can the second thesis advisor be a member of the Thesis Monitoring Committee?
Answer: If the second thesis advisor is appointed, the second thesis advisor can attend the committee meetings if he wishes, but cannot be a member of the thesis monitoring committee.

Question: How many TICs do I need to pass in order to enter the thesis defense in the PhD program?
Answer: In order for the student to submit his doctoral thesis to the Institute, he must be deemed successful by the thesis monitoring committee at least three times if he has applied with a master's degree with thesis, and at least four times if he has applied with a bachelor's degree. After the committee meeting, the advisor sends the Thesis Monitoring Committee Interim Report Form and report to the Institute via the USA.

Question: I want to take the thesis defense exam, what should be the plagiarism rate?
Answer: In order to take the thesis defense exam, you must send the entire thesis, which the advisor has approved as defensible, in word format to the Institute's address sbe@aksaray.edu.tr. As a result of the institute's review, you can get a defense date if the plagiarism rate is below 10% from a single source and 30% in total. However, no defense date will be given for theses exceeding this rate.

Question: I want to take the PhD Thesis defense exam, what documents do I need to prepare?
Answer: In order to take the doctoral thesis defense exam, you must prepare the following documents:

Documents Required to Get a Defense Date:

Thesis Defense Jury Recommendation Form (within 15 days at the earliest and 1 month at the latest from the date of the board of directors)
Thesis Defensibility and Originality Form (signed by the Advisor)
Thesis Submission Commitment Form (signed by the student)
First page of the plagiarism report (signed by the Advisor)
Online Thesis Defense Exam Skype Addresses Form (Juries and the student must create skype addresses and add "Sbe Aksaray", which is the Skype address of the Institute.)
For doctoral students, in accordance with the 8th paragraph of the 51st article of our University's Graduate Education Examination Regulation, students who have passed the qualifying exam as of the 2017-2018 Academic Year Spring Semester must submit at least one scientific article to be prepared together with their advisor; Fulfillment of one of the conditions of being published/accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal (DOI number or receiving an acceptance letter from the journal editor) has been determined as a prerequisite for the student to take the doctoral thesis defense exam. These documents will be sent from EBYS through the Department.
Documents to be prepared by the student when coming to the exam:

Doctoral thesis examination report form (Jury names and student information written - 1 piece)
Doctoral thesis jury review report form (student information written and one for each jury - 5 pieces)
Jury Approval Page (Jury names written - 3 pieces)
(It will be filled in on the computer and printed out)

Question: Who consists of the PhD thesis defense jury?
Answer: The PhD thesis defense jury is formed in accordance with the following conditions:

The Thesis exam jury recommendation form to be filled out by the advisor must consist of 5 main and 2 reserve jury members. The Thesis Monitoring Committee is also a natural member of this jury. The other 2 main and 1 substitute jury must be determined from outside our university staff. In order for this jury to be determined, it must be sent to the institute via the department, along with the date and time proposal.

NOTE: After the defense date is approved by the Institute Board of Directors (EYK), the student must deliver one spiral printed thesis to the jury members at least 1 week before the jury members.

Question: Who can participate in the thesis defense exam?
Answer: Thesis defense meetings are open to the participation of the following groups:

They can participate in thesis defense meetings:

faculty members,
graduate students,
Experts in the field.
The exam consists of the presentation of the thesis work followed by a question-answer section.

After passing the doctoral thesis defense exam, the next process includes the following steps:

The doctoral thesis defense exam report, signed by the jury members, is sent to the institute by the Department chair within 3 business days following the thesis exam.

After the thesis is accepted by the jury members, the student completes the following procedures within 1 month:

a. The suggested corrections of the thesis are made and after the approval of the advisor, the student sends the thesis to the Institute via e-mail (sbe@aksaray.edu.tr).

b. After the Institute's plagiarism review and compliance with the thesis writing guide, the following documents are prepared and delivered to the Institute:

2 bound thesis prepared in accordance with the Thesis Writing Guide
Printout of National Thesis Center Thesis Data Entry Form (2 Pieces - Signed) (https://tez.yok.gov.tr/UlusalTezMerkezi/)
Disconnection Form (1 Piece) on the Information-Document page
Jury Approval Page on the Information-Document page (Signed - 1 Piece)
Student ID Card
The images of the thesis defenses completed online are uploaded to Flash memory and delivered to the Institute.
A CD containing the entire thesis (1 piece - word and pdf) is delivered to the Institute. The CD name must be the reference number in the National Thesis Center.
Both Turkish and Foreign students must fill out the graduate information form. (https://obs.aksaray.edu.tr/oibs/kariyer/login.aspx)
Only foreign students must fill out the Turkey Alumni Alumni Information Form and submit 2 signed printouts to the Institute. (https://www.turkiyemezunlari.gov.tr/)
After the above documents are submitted in full, the thesis is submitted to the Institute Board of Directors (EYK) for approval within 15 days at the earliest.

After the approval of the IAB, the Institute sends the signed jury approval page to the student's e-mail address registered in the system.

The student attaches it to his thesis and uploads the CD (2 pieces) in Word and PDF format and submits it to the Institute. The CD name must be the reference number in the National Thesis Center.

Question: I failed the thesis defense exam. Will my relationship be terminated?
Answer: Yes, the student whose thesis is rejected as unsuccessful will be dismissed.

Question: At the end of the Thesis Defense exam, a correction was given to my thesis. What should I do?
Answer: The student, whose thesis is decided to be corrected, makes the necessary corrections within six months at the latest and defends his thesis again in front of the same jury. The student who is found unsuccessful again after the defense is dismissed from the university.

Question: I failed the PhD Thesis Defense exam. Can I get a master's degree without thesis?
Answer: Those who cannot complete their credit courses and/or thesis within the maximum period, and those who are not successful in their doctoral thesis are given a non-thesis master's degree upon their request, provided that they have fulfilled the credit load, project and other similar conditions required for a non-thesis master's degree.